Remember how we said when we
typed new object that that wasn't
the best way to create a new object?
Let's talk about objects and
what's called object literals.
So we're back to my blank app.js file.
And we're going to talk
about object literals.
In JavaScript there are often more
than one way to do something.
So we already saw that I could create a
new object by going new object like that.
And we'll talk about this more later in
the course as far as what it really means.
But there's a short hand for
this called an object literal.
And it's just curly braces, like that.
That's the same as new object.
So, if I console.log(person),
now I'll just run this.
Go to the console,
you'll see that it's an empty object
just like when I said new object.
So this is shorthand.
Notice this is not an operator.
What's happening is that
the JavaScript engine,
when it's parsing the syntax, and
it comes across this curly brace,
and it's not part of something
like an if statement or a for
loop, or something like that,
it assumes that you're creating an object.
And so I open and close this brace and
now I have a new object.
But, I can do a lot more than that.
I can initialize the object.
I can set up properties and
methods, all within
these curly braces on what is
essentially treated as one line of code.
So for example,
I can put the name of the property or
method, then a colon and then the value.
So a name value pair.
I can separate those with commas,
and put another name and value pair.
So now,
I have two properties on my object.
If I console.log this, and refresh,
there I have my object
with its two properties.
This is essentially the same as
saying person = new Object(),
and then manually setting one at
a time these individual properties.
Notice I can use double quotes or
single quotes for strings in JavaScript.
These two things this and
this are the same.
But this is much faster,
much quicker to write.
So I can actually then
create that object that I initially
created in our last lecture.
And it's often good to use white space.
JavaScript is very liberal about letting
you use white space that is spaces and
tabs and carriage returns, and
this is still treated as one line of code.
But it just makes it more readable for
me as a human.
So I can add another comma, so we separate
each name value pair with a comma,
when using object literal syntax.
And I could give it that address, but
this is another object, so I just make
another object with curly braces
using the object literal syntax and
then I can do exactly
what I did last time,
separating with commas,
giving the name and the values.
So what's happening is, the syntax parser,
and then the JavaScript engine,
the rest of that process, when executing
this code, when it hits this line of code,
and again this is treated as one line
of code, then it sees the curly brace.
It says, you must be creating an object,
and it looks for
these name and
value pairs separated by a colon.
And if it sees another set, or
even within another set, etc.,
etc., of curly braces,
that just means another object.
So I can drop an object
in wherever I want, and
define its properties and
methods on the fly, using the syntax.
And so if I output this to the console,
you can see that I have
my first name, my last name,
and an address property.
That's an object itself with city,
state and street.
A lot faster than defining all of these
one at a time on separate lines of code.
So this is a wonderful way,
and the preferred way,
to quickly create an object.
It gets even more powerful though,
when we look at how the engine
treats this shorthand.
I can create an object anywhere that I
can create any other variable on the fly.
Just like I could pass a number
to a function or a string and
create it on the fly,
we can create an object on the fly when
passing to a function for example.
Let's show an example.
Let's say I have a greet function
that accepts some person object, and
this person is going to be Tony,
right here.
Let's say the greet says
console.log('Hi' + person.firstname);.
So I have a function that
expects an object that
has a first name property,
so I could call greet and
pass Tony, and I should see hi Tony.
I do.
So this object that was created and
is sitting in memory,
is passed to the function,
and it's able to be used.
But I could call the greet function and
create an object on the fly.
So maybe I wanted to say first name Mary,
last name Doe.
Notice I separated the name value
pairs with a comma, and the name and
value is separated with a colon and the
whole thing wrapped inside curly braces.
I'll zoom in a bit on the code,
just a bit so you can see this better.
See that?
And I could even use then some white space
just to make my life a little
bit easier when reading this.
So that looks a little strange doesn't it?
Looks a little weird if you've never
seen something like this before in other
programming languages, but in JavaScript,
I can use object literal syntax.
And what's happening is
the JavaScript engine sees that oh,
you're calling a function and oh,
what are you gonna pass to it?
Well, I just saw curly brace so I know
you're creating an object right here
at this moment of execution and
passing it.
It'd be no different than passing
anything else like a number or a string.
Your creating that string on the fly
when the function is called.
And in this case,
I'm creating the object on the fly.
Where ever I want I can
create an object as I go.
And I can use this object
wherever I use any variable.
So in this case I should see, one.
While I'm greeting and I'm passing this
'Tony' variable which contains firstname,
and then I'm calling greet
again with a different object,
this one created on the fly using object
literal syntax and the first name is Mary.
So what should I see in the console?
Two greetings.
Right.
Hi Tony.
Hi Mary.
See how that worked?
And notice that I can mix and
match this syntax.
I could take this variable Tony and
add a new property using
the DOT operator instead
of an object literal
and then use an object literal to
define it as some sort of object.
So I'm mixing and
matching my methodologies.
So why does this work?
Well, because remember what we said.
The code that you write,
the physical code you're writing, isn't
what's really happening under the hood.
It's being translated by
the Java Script engine
into something the computer
can understand.
So the syntax whether
it's object literals or
using the dot operator or
you're saying new object.
Whatever is going on it's all
doing the exact same thing
under the hood of the JavaScript engine.
It's creating this object in memory and
its properties and methods in memory.
And that's it.
So the syntax that I used doesn't
matter because in the end,
I'm actually creating the same thing.
The JavaScript engine behaves
the same way in both cases.
So it's just a matter of,
what syntax would you like to use?
And as it turns out, object literal
syntax turns out to be really powerful.
It can make for some very clean
looking and easy to write code.
So this is the object literal syntax.
Using these curly braces to define name
and value pairs separated by colons.
All right.
Let's move on.